Title: Date: Time: Venue Members: Contact:

Licensing Panel (Licensing Act 2003 Functions) 22 May 2008 2.00pm Committee Room 1, Hove Town Hall Councillors: Hyde, Lepper and Simson
Christian Brown Democratic Services Officer 01273 291066 christian.brown@brighton-hove.gov.uk

The Town Hall has facilities for wheelchair users, including lifts and toilets An Induction loop operates to enhance sound for anyone wearing a hearing aid or using a transmitter and infra red hearing aids are available for use during the meeting. If you require any further information or assistance, please contact the receptionist on arrival. FIRE / EMERGENCY EVACUATION PROCEDURE If the fire alarm sounds continuously, or if you are instructed to do so, you must leave the building by the nearest available exit. You will be directed to the nearest exit by council staff. It is vital that you follow their instructions: · · · You should proceed calmly; do not run and do not use the lifts; Do not stop to collect personal belongings; Once you are outside, please do not wait immediately next to the building, but move some distance away and await further instructions; and Do not re-enter the building until told that it is safe to do so.
democratic.services@brighton-hove.gov.uk

T

·

Democratic Services

Democratic Services: Meeting Layout

Lawyer

Member

Chair

Member

Democratic Services Officer

Responsible Authorities

Responsible Authorities

Licensing Officer

Residents Representative

Residents Representative

Applicant

Applicant

Public Seating

Press

LICENSING PANEL (LICENSING ACT 2003 FUNCTIONS)

AGENDA
Part One 1. 2. TO APPOINT A CHAIRMAN FOR THE MEETING PROCEDURAL BUSINESS. Procedural Business. To consider the following Procedural Business (Licensing):A. Declaration of Substitutes Page

Where Councillors are unable to attend a meeting, a substitute Member from the main Licensing Committee may attend, speak and vote in their place for that meeting. B. Declarations of Interest

To seek declarations of any personal or personal & prejudicial interests under Part 2 of the Code in relation to matters on the Agenda. Members who do declare such interests are required to clearly describe the nature of the interest. If the interest is a prejudicial interest, the Code of Conduct requires the Member concerned to leave the room or chamber where the meeting takes place while the item in respect of which the declaration is made is under consideration. C. Exclusion of Press and Public

To consider whether, in view of the nature of the business to be transacted, or the nature of the proceedings, the press and public should be excluded from the meeting when any of the following items are under consideration. NOTE: Any item appearing in Part 2 of the Agenda states in its heading the category under which the information disclosed in the report is confidential and therefore not available to the public. A list and description of the exempt categories is available for public inspection at Brighton and Hove Town Halls. 3. APPLICATION FOR A PREMISES LICENCE UNDER THE LICENSING ACT 2003 - REFRESH CLUB, 75-76 GRAND PARADE, BRIGHTON Report of Assistant Director, Public Safety (copy attached). Contact Officer: Ward Affected: Karen Ashdown Queen's Park Tel: 29-2441 1 - 18

LICENSING PANEL (LICENSING ACT 2003 FUNCTIONS)

4.

APPLICATION FOR A VARIATION OF A PREMISES LICENCE UNDER THE LICENSING ACT 2003 - SPEARMINT RHINO ROUGE, UNIT 5, FIRST AND SECOND FLOORS, 75-79 EAST STREET, BRIGHTON Report of Assistant Director, Public Safety (copy attached). Contact Officer: Ward Affected: Jim Whitelegg Regency Tel: 29-2143

19 - 38

The City Council actively welcomes members of the public and the press to attend its meetings and holds as many of its meetings as possible in public. Provision is also made on the agendas for public questions to committees and details of how questions can be raised can be found on the website and/or on agendas for the meetings. The closing date for receipt of public questions and deputations for the next meeting is 12 noon on the fifth working day before the meeting. Agendas and minutes are published on the council's website www.brighton-hove.gov.uk. Agendas are available to view five working days prior to the meeting date. Meeting papers can be provided, on request, in large print, in Braille, on audio tape or on disc, or translated into any other language as requested. For further details and general enquiries about this meeting contact Caroline De Marco, (01273 291063, email caroline.demarco@brighton-hove.gov.uk) or email democratic.services@brighton-hove.gov.uk

Date of Publication - Wednesday, 14 May 2008

